# SFTP Service

This project uses NodeJS 16.x and contains an implementation of the SFTP protocol that supports interaction with the Permanent API.

## Usage

1. Install npm packages.

```
npm install
```

2. Generate a host key for your SSH server

```
ssh-keygen -f ./keys/host.key -t ed25519 -N ""
```

3. Configure your `.env`

```
cp .env.example .env
vi .env
```

4. Start the service

```
npm start
```

or, if you want to start the development environment

```
npm run dev
```

## Running [rclone](https://rclone.org) against Permanent.org instances

First install rclone.  See the [official installation
guide](https://rclone.org/install/) for more information.

### Set up an rclone remote

Run **`rclone config`** and answer the questions it asks:

- Select option **`n`** (for "new") and make a remote name (e.g., "permanent").

- At the **`Storage>`** prompt, set the storage protocol to SFTP, either by typing "sftp" at the prompt or by selecting the corresponding number from the displayed menu (the numbered entry may say "SSH/SFTP").

- At the **`host>`** prompt, set the host to **`sftp.permanent.org`**.

  If you want to run rclone against the dev or staging environment, then use `sftp.dev.permanent.org` or `sftp.staging.permanent.org` instead.  (You can also say `sftp.prod.permanent.org`, but it means the same thing as just `sftp.permanent.org`.)

- At the **`user>`** prompt, enter your Permanent username, which is the email address associated with your account.

- At the **`port>`** prompt, enter **`22`** (or just hit Enter, since 22 is the default).

  You may recognize `22` as the standard SSH port number.  We run the SFTP storage protocol over SSH, for a secure connection.

- At the **`y/g/n>`** prompt for how you'll enter SSH password, choose **`y`** for "Yes, type in my own password".

  You will then be prompted to enter the password for your Permanent account.  

  Note that this password will be stored in a local file, and it will be in lightly obscured form but _not_ securely encrypted.  If you'd rather not have the password stored locally that way, there are two solutions available:

    - Set the environment variable `RCLONE_CONFIG_PASS` to some passphrase, which will be used to symmetrically encrypt/decrypt your Permanent password in your local rclone configuration file.

       *-or-*

    - Later on, when asked whether to *"Edit advanced config?"*, answer **`y`** instead of **`n`**.  Then when you get to the `ask_password>` option, enter "true" (and for all the other prompts in the advanced config section, just hit Enter to accept the default).

- For the remaining options, just choose the default by pressing Enter:
    - `key_pem>`
    - `key_file>`
    - `y/g/n>` for option `key_file_pass` -- just hit Enter for default `n`
    - `pubkey_file>` 
    - `key_use_agent>`
    - `use_insecure_cipher>` 
    - `disable_hashcheck>`
    - `y/n>` for option `Edit advanced config?` -- just hit Enter for `n` (unless you're doing the `ask_password` option as described earlier)

- At the **`y/e/d>`** prompt, when rclone shows you your completed configuration, hit Enter (same as `y`) to keep the new configuration.

- At the **`e/n/d/r/c/s/q>`** prompt at the very end, hit **`q`** to quit out of configuration.

The configuration for your Permanent remote is now stored, most likely in your `rclone.conf` file.  The location of this file can differ from system to system (on some Linux-based systems it's in `~/.config/rclone/rclone.conf`), but rclone knows where to find it.

If you chose to have your password stored in the config file, then your `rclone.conf` now contains a block like this:

```
[permanent]
type = sftp
host = sftp.permanent.org
user = your@email.address
pass = 5PfZmfI1qOPUiRvWgJJuZbztXq9g0nUpFxzVEPLB3fV-q86iZR7FtXQ--X6hUe559dM
```

Or you chose to have rclone ask you for your password on each invocation, then your `rclone.conf` instead contains a block like this:

```
[permanent]
type = sftp
host = sftp.permanent.org
user = your@email.address
ask_password = true
```

In the latter case, you could of course just set up the `rclone.conf` file manually yourself, and skip the `rclone config` questionnaire entirely.

### Run `rclone copy` to fetch your data from Permanent.

```
rclone copy permanent:/ ./my-permanent-data
```

### Troubleshooting rclone

- MFA Support : `rclone` does not support MFA. Hence, you should disable MFA in your permanent account if you have it enabled otherwise rclone would fail.`

## Contributing

Contributors to this repository agree to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). To report violations, get in touch with engineers@permanent.org.

## Security

Found a vulnerability? Report this and any other security concerns to engineers@permanent.org.

## Generating a Token

Right now this project uses a bearer token which must be generated by a permanent dev for testing purposes.

If you're a permanent dev, here are the steps:

1. Get the FusionAuth client and secret.
2. Log into the demo user at the [sftp local app](https://permanent-dev.fusionauth.io/oauth2/authorize?client_id=53c713d5-ba07-472f-a79b-582767ff6d84&response_type=code&redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A9000%2Fauth%2Fcallback)
3. In the URL extract the `code` value
4. POST to https://permanent-dev.fusionauth.io/oauth2/token with the following x-www-form-urlencoded body:

```
client_id: ????
client_secret: ????
code: ????
grant_type: authorization_code
redirect_uri: http://localhost:9000/auth/callback
```

## License

This code is free software licensed as [AGPLv3](LICENSE), or at your option, any final, later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
